source and target data types (#584)
SimpleDataLabsInc/prophecy-docs: docs/Spark/gems/source-target/file/avro.md

tags:
  - gems
  - file
  - avro
---

The Avro file type:

- Is a row-based, open-source data serialization system.
- Supports schema evolution, which allows schemas to evolve over time without breaking compatibility.
- Stores the data in a binary format, which makes the data compact and efficient.
- Usually appears in big data environments, data streaming applications, and scenarios where data serialization and storage are important.

## Parameters

| Parameter | Tab        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| --------- | ---------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Location  | Location   | File path to read from or write to the Avro file.                                                                                                                                                              |

> | Schema    | Properties | Schema to apply on the loaded data. <br/>In the Source gem, you can define or edit the schema as a JSON, or infer it with the `Infer Schema` button.<br/>In the Target gem, you can view the schema as a JSON. |

Reviewer: Since the default is view in a table (rather than JSON), should we mention that? 

<img width="1534" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/256ee432-7838-4d47-b060-ac20e8b6a797" />

Author: ```suggestion
| Schema    | Properties | Schema in the table to apply on the loaded data. <br/>In the Source gem, you can define or edit the schema as a JSON, or infer it with the `Infer Schema` button.<br/>In the Target gem, you can view the schema as a JSON. |
```
I agree -- should def clarify its in a table view. How's this wording update?

Reviewer: You can also edit the schema in the table, not only in the JSON. So maybe "Schema to apply on the loaded data. In the Source gem, you can define or edit the schema visually or in JSON code. In the Target gem, you can view the schema visually or as JSON code."

| Modified After        | Optional timestamp to only include files with modification times occurring after the specified time. The provided timestamp must be in the following form: YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss (e.g. 2020-06-01T13:00:00)                                             | False    | None    |
| Avro Schema           | Optional schema in JSON format. To learn more, see [Schema Evolution](#schema-evolution).                                                                                                                                                             | False    | None    |
| ignoreExtension       | **_DEPRECATED_**. Enable to load files without the `.avro` extension. To learn more, see [Ignoring the File Extension](#ignoring-the-file-extension).                                                                                                 | False    | True    |

#### Schema Evolution

> When reading an Avro data format, you can set the `Avro Schema` parameter to a newer, evolved schema, which is compatible but different from the schema written to storage. The resulting `DataFrame` follows the newer, evolved schema. For example, if we set an evolved schema containing one additional column with a default value, the resulting `DataFrame` contains the new column too.

Reviewer: I think Avro is a type of file, but would be good to double check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When reading an Avro file, you can set the `Avro Schema` parameter to a newer, evolved schema, which is compatible but different from the schema written to storage. The resulting `DataFrame` follows the newer, evolved schema. For example, if we set an evolved schema containing one additional column with a default value, the resulting `DataFrame` contains the new column too.
```

#### Ignoring the File Extension

> If you enable the `ignoreExtension` parameter, Prophecy loads all files (with and without .avro extension). This parameter is deprecated, and will be removed in the future releases. Please use [pathGlobFilter](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/sql-data-sources-generic-options.html#path-global-filter) for filtering file names.

Reviewer: Check if the parameters is already removed... then you can delete this section if so

Author: <img width="388" alt="Screenshot 2025-03-10 at 10 39 56 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1969b8b2-4b11-4d91-ad86-13c160edae54" />
So the current UI has this other ignore field -- is it the same? Or is this a new field?

Reviewer: I would ask Maciej :)

| Compression       | Compression codec when writing to the Avro file. <br/>The Avro file supports the following codecs: `uncompressed`, `snappy`, `deflate`, `bzip2`, and `xz`. <br/>This defaults to the value of the `spark.sql.avro.compression.codec` parameter.                                           | `snappy`         |
| Partition Columns | List of columns to partition the Avro files by.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | None             |
| Record Name       | Top level record name in the result.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | `topLevelRecord` |

> | Record Namespace  | Record namespace in the result.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | ""               |

Reviewer: Does "" mean empty string here?

Author: Yes, but I was thinking maybe we should update all empty strings to say None to make it more clear?

Reviewer: Maybe say "empty string `""`" to make it clear what data type it is?

Author: I'll put `(empty string)` next to it to make it clear :)

### Generated Code {#target-code}

> :::tip

Reviewer: I love having this as a tip. We could add everywhere eventually
